Document commonly used Rust crates and link to examples (#9400)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/workers/platform/webassembly/rust/crates.md

---
title: Supported Crates
pcx_content_type: single
weight: 1
meta:
  title: Supported Crates
---

# `workers-rs` Supported Rust Crates

> This document outlines popular Rust crates which have been confirmed to work on Workers when using `workers-rs` (or in some cases just `wasm-bindgen`),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document outlines popular Rust crates which have been confirmed to work on Workers when using [`workers-rs`](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-rs) (or in some cases just `wasm-bindgen`), to write Workers in WebAssembly.
```

> and any custom configuration that was required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each example includes any custom configuration that is required.
```

> This is not an exhaustive list, many Rust crates can be compiled to the `wasm32-unknown-unknown` target that is supported by Workers.

Reviewer: Where should `wasm32-unknown-unknown` link to for people to understand more about this target?

Author: Potentially here but I'm not sure how useful it is https://doc.rust-lang.org/rustc/platform-support/wasm64-unknown-unknown.html

> This is not an exhaustive list, many Rust crates can be compiled to the `wasm32-unknown-unknown` target that is supported by Workers.

Author: ```suggestion
This is not an exhaustive list, many Rust crates can be compiled to the [`wasm32-unknown-unknown`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rustc/platform-support/wasm64-unknown-unknown.html) target that is supported by Workers.
```

In some cases this may require disabling default features or enabling a Wasm-specific feature. Finally, it is important to carefully

> consider the addition of new dependencies, as this can significantly increase bundle size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
consider the addition of new dependencies, as this can significantly increase the [size](/workers/platform/limits/#worker-size) of your Worker.
```

## `time`

> Many crates which have been made Wasm-friendly, will use the `time` crate instead of `std::time`. For the `time` crate to work in Wasm, the `wasm-bindgen` feature must be enabled to obtain timing information from JavaScript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many crates use the `time` crate instead of `std::time`, in order to work more easily in WebAssembly runtimes. For the `time` crate to work in Wasm, the `wasm-bindgen` feature must be enabled to obtain timing information from JavaScript.
```

Author: I'm not sure this is the same meaning:
1. `std::time` does not work at all in Wasm.
2. Its good to call out that not all crates are Wasm-compatible, and will usually have some documented effort of being made compatible.

> Many crates which have been made Wasm-friendly, will use the `time` crate instead of `std::time`. For the `time` crate to work in Wasm, the `wasm-bindgen` feature must be enabled to obtain timing information from JavaScript.

Author: No, we do not have an example for this crate.

## `tracing`

Tracing can be enabled by using the `tracing-web` crate and the `time` feature for `tracing-subscriber`. 

> Due to timing limitations on Workers, spans will have identical start and end times unless they encompass I/O.

Reviewer: Link to https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/learning/security-model/#step-1-disallow-timers-and-multi-threading?

> Due to timing limitations on Workers, spans will have identical start and end times unless they encompass I/O.

Author: ```suggestion
Due to [timing limitations](/workers/learning/security-model/#step-1-disallow-timers-and-multi-threading) on Workers, spans will have identical start and end times unless they encompass I/O.
```

[See Example](https://github.com/kflansburg/workers-rs/tree/main/examples/tracing).

## `reqwest`

> The `reqwest` library can be compiled to Wasm, and hooks into the JavaScript `fetch` API automatically using `wasm-bindgen`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`reqwest` library](https://docs.rs/reqwest/latest/reqwest/) can be compiled to Wasm, and hooks into the JavaScript `fetch` API automatically using `wasm-bindgen`. 
```

I think worthwhile to link to these

> [See Example](https://github.com/kflansburg/workers-rs/tree/main/examples/tracing).

Author: ```suggestion
[Refer to the `tracing` example](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-rs/tree/main/examples/tracing) for more information.
```

## `tokio-postgres`

`tokio-postgres` can be compiled to Wasm. It must be configured to use a `Socket` from `workers-rs`:

> [See Example](https://github.com/kflansburg/workers-rs/tree/main/examples/tokio-postgres).

Author: Another PR needed to be merged, I will update

> [See Example](https://github.com/kflansburg/workers-rs/tree/main/examples/tokio-postgres).

Author: ```suggestion
[Refer to the `tokio-postgres` example](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-rs/tree/main/examples/tokio-postgres) for more information.
```

## `hyper`

The `hyper` crate contains two HTTP clients, the lower-level `conn` module and the higher-level `Client`. 
The `conn` module can be used with Workers `Socket`, however `Client` requires timing dependencies which are
not yet Wasm friendly. 

> [See Example](https://github.com/kflansburg/workers-rs/tree/main/examples/hyper).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Refer to the `hyper` example](https://github.com/kflansburg/workers-rs/tree/main/examples/hyper).
```

> [See Example](https://github.com/kflansburg/workers-rs/tree/main/examples/hyper).

Author: ```suggestion
[Refer to the `hyper` example](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-rs/tree/main/examples/hyper) for more information.
```
